Now let's spend a few minutes talking
about the types of construction projects. So when people talk about the construction
industry, what are they talking about? So, we can put them in
a few different buckets. For the purposes of discussion,
let's put them in these four buckets. Industrial, heavy, residential and
building construction. And let's start with the residential,
because that makes up the largest portion of revenue across
the construction industry. So residential construction's probably
what most people are familiar with. It's the building of individual homes,
multi-family homes, condominiums, or high-rise apartments. That makes up nearly 40% of the industry. Then building construction, so
if you think of other buildings. Other types of structures that need to be
built to support global infrastructure. Things like schools, universities,
manufacturing plants, recreation centers. All of those types are other
elements of building construction. And you may also hear the term
sometimes vertical construction or horizontal construction. And the residential construction and the building construction
are vertical construction. Why do we call it that? Well, if you think about
how the projects go and the structures that are built, they're
built vertically out of the ground. That's the reason we call
it vertical construction. Contrasting that is
horizontal construction. So looking in the category of
heavy engineering construction. Things like tunnels, bridges, highways,
transit systems, those things are built horizontally along the ground,
referred to as horizontal construction. The reason they're segregated sometimes
is the tools, the techniques, the knowledge that are required to
build in a vertical environment or a horizontal environment can
be a little bit different. That category of heavy engineering
construction is referred to as heavy because of the equipment that's
required to do this type of work. As we had just talked about, in the case
of the Hoover Dam and the incredible effort it takes to carry out a project
like that, the size of the equipment. So we're thinking about
very heavy equipment. Earth moving equipment, graters,
excavators, massive cranes. This is the equipment required
to do this kind of work and hence referred to as heavy
engineering construction. It includes those major elements
of water treatment plants. Ports, airports, seaports, or harbors, bridges, tunnels,
all of those fall into that category. That makes up approximately
30% of the industry. And last but not least, making up about 13% of the industry
is industrial construction. So things like refinery steel mills,
power plants, synthetic fuel plants. And what makes these a little bit
different on the industrial side? If you wanna contrast social
infrastructure versus economic infrastructure, economic infrastructure
is those things that support and allow and
provide the ability to drive economics. That drives our commerce. Industrial construction
focuses on those facilities, and typically has elements of them
associated with high pressures, high temperatures, and the moving of
materials through the facilities. Now, let's spend a few minutes talking
about Industry characteristics. So when we talk about this industry,
what's unique about it, what's special? And when we think about how the world is
changing today, what makes that unique and special at this point in time? The World Economic Forum,
along with the Boston Consulting Group, put a report out in May of 2016, which provided some interesting
insight into the industry. One of them, the size of the industry, $10 trillion,
employing 100 million people globally. So you get an appreciation for
the size of this industry. The importance. And the importance goes beyond
the industry itself and the people it employes. But the importance is how it helps
drive economies around the world and the critical service that it
provides the people of the world. Another statistic coming out of this and anybody that works in the industry knows
and appreciates how fragmented it is. One of the most fragmented industries
there are has over, if you look at an example too, which they pointed out in
the US, the US has 700,000 engineering and construction companies with
80% having ten or few workers. So if you think about
how work gets done and how work is divided up across the industry
and the fact that each one could have a slightly different approach on
how they would approach a project, you get an appreciation of
how fragmented it is and some of the challenges that that can present to
the industry and those that it supports. Something else that's somewhat unique
to the industry is the fact that it's project based. So we talked about some of the major
projects in the introduction. But if you think about the fact that
every project is unique in it's own way. So think about where the project is,
who it's being built for. If you think about the environmental
conditions, the demand, whose doing the work, what the expectations are,
what the specifications are. Every project is somewhat unique. So unlike a manufacturing process where
you're able to set the condition, set the environment, and
get a repeatable process. You're not able to do this to
the same degree in this industry, which makes it much more challenging
when we think about delivering projects. Another challenge, and something unique to the industry is that
projects are largely created on site. So when we think about structures. When we think about buildings and
bridges and airports, you don't create them somewhere
else and bring them and set them down. It has to be built on site. Which means you have to bring
all of the expertise and all of the equipment to that site. Again, unlike manufacturing where you
have the ability to have it under controlled and repeatable conditions. This is new every time,
which makes it much more challenging. And the industry is making
some really big strides with respect to prefabrication or actually
moving more of a factory type setting in building structures, but
there's a very long way to go. And again, it's another one of
those significant challenges. Another industry characteristic is
multiple stakeholders with changing priorities. So every project has
a unique set of stakeholders from the public that may be impacted by
it to those that are going to use it. So in the case of a transit system. The riders, those that are gonna
be impacted by the right of way, where that transit system
is going to be placed. Those that are gonna help build and
construct it. The governments that are helping fund it. All of those have their
own set of priorities, in many cases different priorities, and
those priorities are changing over time. So you have kind of a moving target
when we talk about engineering and construction projects. And some of the challenges that goes
with delivering excellence in that type of environment. Another characteristic of
the industry is low profitability. And this has been consistent for
many, many years and this is both on the engineering and
construction side. But typical profitability on
projects is less than 5%. So when you think about the margin for
error and the ability to have to go back and do rework, do parts of a project again,
or unsuccessful projects, and not having a large margin for error. It also makes it a very tough
industry to be successful. And we see over time, it's part of the reason for
the fragmented nature of the business. It also impacts the ability then,
to invest back into the industry. I would contrast this as well
with typical profitability in the S&P 500 companies, which is
typically over 15% on an annual basis. And related to that, research and development has not been a priority for
the industry either. And part of that is because of the
availability of funding in the industry to drive into research and development and
part of it is the nature of the industry. The industry was built on
the notion of always looking after the public interest and to design
and build in a very conservative way, which drives thinking around using
techniques and methodologies that have been tried and true, tested out,
and been used many times before. And that drives a certain mentality on how
projects are designed and constructed. Those thought processes have led us
to the last industry characteristic. Which is the industry is
conservative by nature. So if you think about
how decisioning is done, how innovation can find its way
into the industry, it's tough. Because the industry has been and continues to be very
conservative by nature.